---
title: '1. Generate Azure Arc script to add server'
layout: default
nav_order: 1
parent: 'Exercise 03: Azure Arc-enable on-premises VM'
---

# Task 01 - Generate Azure Arc script to add server

## Introduction

Terra Firm Laboratories wants to migrate several on-premises workloads to Microsof Azure. For some workload there are no plans to migrate it to Azure. In this task, you will start the process of adding a server to Azure Arc by creating the Azure resource and generating a script to run in the on-prem VM.

## Description

In this task, you will create the Azure Arc resource and the scrip to run.

The key tasks are as follows:
1. Create the Azure Arc resource.
2. Generate the script to run in the on-prem VM.

## Success Criteria

* Successfully generate the script.

## Solution

<details markdown="block">
<summary>Expand this section to view the solution</summary>

1. Sign in to the [Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com). Ensure that you're using a subscription associated with the same resources you created during the Before the hands-on lab set up.

2. In the **Search resources, services, and docs** box at the top of the portal, search for **Azure Arc**, then select the **Azure Arc** service.

3. Under **Azure Arc resources**, select the **Machines**.

4. On the **Azure Arc | Machines** pane, select the **+ Add/Create** option and then the **Add a machine** option.

4. On the **Add servers with Azure Arc** pane, under **Add a single server** select **Generate script**.

5. On the **Add a server with Azure Arc** pane, enter the following values, then select **Next**.

    - **Resource group**: Select the Resource Group created for this lab. For example: `terrafirm`.
    - **Region**: Select **North Central US**.
    - **Operating system**: `Linux`
    - **Connectivity method**: `Public endpoint`

7. On the **Tags** tab, enter the following tag values to identify this server, then select **Next**:

    - **Datacenter**: `headquarters`
    - **City**: `Milwaukee`
    - **StateOrDistrict**: `WI`
    - **CountryOrRegion**: `USA`

8. On the **Download and run script** tab, select **Download** to download the generated script. By default, the script named `OnboardingScript.sh` will be saved to the `Downloads` folder.

</details>