---
title: '3. Verify Azure Arc-enabled VM'
layout: default
nav_order: 3
parent: 'Exercise 03: Enable Azure Arc'
---

# Task 03 - Verify Azure Arc-enabled VM

## Introduction

Terra Firm Laboratories wants to migrate several on-premises workloads to Microsof Azure. For some workload there are no plans to migrate it to Azure. In this task, you will Verify that the Azure Arc-enabled VM has been added successfully.

## Description

In this task, you will Verify that the Azure Arc-enabled VM has been added successfully.

The key tasks are as follows:
1. Confirm that the **Machine - Azure Arc** pane for the on-premises virtual machine should shows the **Status** as **Connected**. 

## Success Criteria

* Azure Arc VM status is **Connected**.

## Solution

<details markdown="block">
<summary>Expand this section to view the solution</summary>

1. In the Azure Portal, navigate to the Resource Group for the lab.

   
2. Scroll down and locate the Azure resource of type **Server - Azure Arc**. and select it.

3. This is the **Server - Azure Arc** pane for the on-premises virtual machine that was just Azure Arc-enabled. The **Status** shows **Connected** to signify that the Azure Arc-enabled virtual machine is connected to Azure. Also, notice that the **Computer Name** and **Operating System** of the virtual machine are displayed.

4. From here, there are several **Azure Arc** capabilities available to use for managing the Azure Arc-enabled virtual machine.

5. Select **Extensions** under **Settings**. This is where you can install Extensions on the Azure Arc-enabled virtual machine. For example, the **Custom script for linux - Azure Arc** extension can be used to download scripts and files from Azure storage and launch a script on the machine.