---
title: '2. Run script to add server to Azure Arc'
layout: default
nav_order: 2
parent: 'Exercise 03: Enable Azure Arc'
---

# Task 02 - Run script to add server to Azure Arc

## Introduction

Terra Firm Laboratories wants to migrate several on-premises workloads to Microsof Azure. For some workload there are no plans to migrate it to Azure. In this task, you will run the script in the on-prem VM to enable Azure Arc.

## Description

In this task, you will run the script in the on-prem VM.

The key tasks are as follows:

1. Run the script in the on-prem VM.
2. After the script, a message stating "**Connected machine to Azure**" will be shown.

## Success Criteria

* Successfully run the script.
* A message stating "**Connected machine to Azure**" will be shown after running the script.

## Solution

<details markdown="block">
<summary>Expand this section to view the solution</summary>

1. In the Azure Portal, navigate to the Resource Group for the lab, then select the **`terrafirm-onprem-vm`** virtual machine resource. This is the simulated on-premises Linux host VM.

2. On the left, select **Bastion** under **Connect**.

3. Enter the **Username** and **Password**, then select **Connect**.

    > **Note**: When the VM was created the credentials were set up as:
    - **Authentication Type**: `VM Password`
    - **Username**: `demouser`
    - **Password**: `<the password you chose when provisioning the VM>`

4. Once connected to the Linux Host VM, run the following cmd:

        sudo systemctl stop walinuxagent
        sudo systemctl disable walinuxagent

    > **Note**: The output should show that the `walinuxagent` service is inactive.

5. Run the following cmd:

        sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --direct --add-rule ipv4 filter OUTPUT 1 -p tcp -d 169.254.169.254 -j REJECT
        sudo firewall-cmd --reload

    > **Note**: The output should show that the firewall rules have been updated.

6. Within the Virtual Machine Bastion Connection, paste in the contents of the Azure Arc `OnboardingScript.sh` script previously downloaded. 

7. Run the full script. This will install the Azure Arc agent and Arc-enable the VM. When the script asks to open a browser window to authenticate, follow the instructions and enter your credentials to authenticate with Azure.

8. When the script finishes executing successfully, a message stating "**Connected machine to Azure**" will be shown, along with the Azure Portal resource URL for the Azure Arc-enabled Server

</details>
